CIRCUL AR

66

Copyright Registration of

Websites and Website
Content
The Copyright Act does not explicitly
recognize websites as a type of
copyrightable subject matter. However,
you may be able to register a website
or a specific web page if it satisfies
certain statutory requirements. This
circular focuses on registration issues
involving websites and website
content. It covers
• How to identify the author of
a website
• How to identify copyrightable
content on a website
• What “publication” means
in the context of a website
• What to submit as a deposit
with a website registration

For registration purposes, a website is a web page or set of
interconnected web pages, including a home page, located on
the same computer or server and prepared and maintained
as a collection of information by a person, group, or
organization. Although a website may contain text, artwork,
photographs, music, videos, or other copyrightable content,
the website itself is not typically considered a copyrightable
work. However, you may be able to register a website or a
specific web page if it satisfies the statutory requirements for a
compilation or collective work.
Websites differ from databases and computer programs
for the purposes of registration. A database is a compilation
of digital information, accessible solely by an information
retrieval program. A computer program is a set of statements
or instructions to be used directly or indirectly in a computer
to bring about a certain result.
This circular provides information about registering
websites and website content with the U.S. Copyright Office.1
For specific information about this topic, see chapter 1000
of the Compendium of U.S. Copyright Office Practices. For
information about registration of computer programs, see
Copyright Registration of Computer Programs (Circular 61).
For more information about registration of databases, see
chapter 700, section 727 of the Compendium.

Copyright Registration
An application for copyright registration contains three
essential elements: a completed application form, a
nonrefundable filing fee, and a nonreturnable deposit—
that is, a copy or copies of the work being registered and
“deposited” with the Copyright Office. Copyright Registration
(Circular 2) contains general information about submitting a
registration including details about what to expect after you
file and the effective date of registration. When you complete
an application, you will be asked to identify the author of the

w

copyright.gov

work, the type of copyrightable authorship that you want to register, and the owner of copyright.
These topics are discussed in more detail below.
As a general rule, you must submit a separate application, filing fee, and deposit for each work
that you want to register. However, the Office has established exceptions for certain types of works
that allow you to register multiple works with one application. In particular, the Office offers a
group registration for short online literary works. For more information, see Group Registration of
Short Online Literary Works (Circular 67) and Multiple Works (Circular 34).
The Copyright Office strongly encourages you to submit a claim before you distribute your work
to the public.
note: Copyright Office fees are subject to change. For current fees, see Copyright Office Fees
(Circular 4) available on the Office’s website at www.copyright.gov or call the office at (202) 707-3000
or 1-877-476-0778 (toll free).

Copyrightable Content on a Website
To register a website or website content, you must identify the copyrightable authorship you will
submit for registration. Copyrightable authorship is original expression contributed by an author
that contains at least a minimum amount of creativity.
As with any other work, the Office will refuse registration for any website or website content that
does not constitute copyrightable subject matter or any content that lacks sufficient authorship.
Common examples of uncopyrightable material particular to websites include ideas or plans for
future websites; functional design elements; domain names or URLs; the layout, format, or “look and
feel” of a web page; or other common, unoriginal material such as names, icons, or familiar symbols.
Website Content

Websites usually contain multiple forms of content such as text, photographs, illustrations, and
other two-dimensional artwork. They may also contain other forms of content such as music, sound
recordings, and videos or other audiovisual works.
An individual work that appears on a website can be registered if it constitutes copyrightable
subject matter and contains a sufficient amount of original authorship. It should be registered
according to the predominant copyrightable content. For example, if you want to protect a blog
post consisting mainly of text, you can register the blog entry as a literary work. If you want to
protect a musical work that is available on a website, you can register it as a work of the performing
arts. Likewise, a photographer who displays or distributes her photographs on a website can register
these images as visual art works. In other words, works that are located on a website are registered in
much the same way as any other work, and the Office applies the same rules when examining them.
As a general rule, you should submit a separate application for each component work appearing
on the website, although it is possible to register multiple works on one application if they qualify
for one of the Office’s special registration accommodations. For example, if the works on a website
are of the same type and are unpublished, you may be able to register them using the group
registration of unpublished works option. For more information, see Multiple Works (Circular 34).
Alternatively, if they are literary works that contain between 50 and 17,500 words and if they were
first published online, you may be able to register them using the group registration of short online
literary works option. For more information, see Group Registration of Short Online Literary Works
(Circular 67).

Copyright Registration of Websites and Website Content

2

If the website contains a number of photographs, you may be able to register them using the
group option for published or unpublished photographs. For more information, see Copyright
Registration of Photographs (Circular 42). As discussed below, it may also be possible to register a
website together with the works contained on it if the site qualifies as a collective work, regardless of
whether the works are published or unpublished.
Website as a Whole

A website is not explicitly recognized as a type of copyrightable subject matter under the Copyright
Act. Therefore, you should not list “website” as the type of authorship that you will submit with your
copyright application. You, may, however, be able to register a website or a specific web page if it
satisfies the statutory requirements for a compilation or collective work.
You can register a website as a compilation or a collective work if there is a sufficient amount of
creative expression in the selection, coordination, or arrangement of the content appearing on the
individual web pages or the website as a whole. Likewise, a website may qualify as a compilation or a
collective work if there is sufficient creativity in the overall hierarchy of the website, such as the ways
in which the pages are connected or linked with one another.
When you register a website as a compilation or a collective work, the registration may cover
both the website as a whole and the individual works that appear on the site—but only if the
claimant fully owns the copyrights in both the compilation and the underlying works at the time of
registration. For more information about compilation and collective work authorship, see Multiple
Works (Circular 34).
A claim in a compilation or a collective work extends only to the specific elements provided
in the deposit that the claimant fully owns. It does not cover previous or subsequent iterations of
the same website. Likewise, it does not cover the general layout or format of a web page or other
elements arranged in the same or a similar way. For this reason, the Office generally will refuse
claims consisting solely of style sheet languages, such as Cascading Style Sheets.
HTML

Hypertext markup language (HTML) is a standard markup language used in the design of websites.
It is frequently generated by automated website design software. HTML establishes the format and
layout of the content that appears on a particular web page by instructing the user’s browser to
present that content in a specified manner.
If you want to register content that has been posted on a website, you should submit the content
in the form in which it appears on the actual website. There is no reason to submit the HTML code
for that site unless you specifically want to register the human-written portions of the HTML itself
and any website text that is embedded within the HTML. A registration for HTML will not cover
any formatting and layout that may be dictated by the HTML or style sheets. Nor will it cover any
audio, visual, or audiovisual content that may appear on a website and is not perceptible in the
HTML. HTML may be registered as a literary work only if it was created by a human being and it
contains a sufficient amount of creative expression.

Author of a Website and Its Content
To register a work with the Copyright Office, you must identify the author or authors of the work. In
addition, you must identify the party that owns the copyright in the work. Many websites contain

Copyright Registration of Websites and Website Content

3

multiple types of copyrightable content. Identifying the author and copyright owner of that content
is an important step in seeking a registration.
Generally, when an individual creates a work he or she is considered the author of that work for
copyright purposes. If two or more authors create a work, they may be considered joint authors, and
their work may be considered a joint work. For more information on joint authorship, see chapter 500,
sections 505 through 505.2, of the Compendium.
If a third party hires an individual as an independent contractor to develop a website or content
for a website, the contractor is considered the author and copyright owner of the work, not the
hiring party. In such a case, the hiring party would have to acquire all the exclusive rights in the
work through a signed written agreement with the contractor to assert a claim to copyright in
the contractor’s work. By contrast, if an individual creates a work during the course of his or her
employment under a typical employment relationship, the work is considered a work made for hire,
and the employer is considered the author and copyright owner of that work, not the employee. For
more information, see chapter 500, sections 506 of the Compendium.
Many websites also contain third-party content. This type of content typically belongs to the
author of the content unless there is a valid written and signed transfer of ownership of all rights.
One type of third-party content common to websites is user-generated content, the ownership of
which may be transferred through terms of service. The Copyright Office will accept an application
that asserts a claim in user-generated content as long as you identify the authors of that content
and confirm that the copyright in that content has been transferred to the claimant named in
the application. If the content was created by a large number of authors, the Office will accept an
application that provides a representative number of author names and the number of additional
authors who contributed to the content.
note: You must exclude any authorship that is not fully owned by you from your application. In
particular, a claim in an entire website does not extend to externally linked content.

Common Registration Issues
This section discusses some common issues that you should consider when seeking to register a
website or website content.
Publication

The fact that a work has been placed online or posted on a website does not necessarily mean that
the work has been published. The Office considers a work published when copies of it are distributed to the public by sale or other transfer of ownership if the copyright owner authorizes the end
user to retain copies of the work. Merely displaying or performing a work online generally does not
constitute publication. However, a work is considered published when the copyright owner offers to
distribute copies of the work to a group of people for the purpose of further distributing the copies
or publicly performing or displaying the work.
The key element of publication for an online work is that the copyright owner must authorize
distribution. Just because an end user can technically reproduce a work does not necessarily mean
that the work has been published. A copyright owner must have expressly or implicitly authorized
users to make retainable copies of a work by downloading, printing, or other means for the work to
be considered published.

Copyright Registration of Websites and Website Content

4

The concepts of authorization and publication can be complicated and may have serious
consequences for the author or copyright owner. For this reason, the Office generally lets
the applicant decide whether a particular work is published or unpublished. In making this
determination, you may wish to consider the following general guidelines.
• Work made available only by streaming. Streaming is a performance, which, in and of itself,
does not constitute publication, because, as a practical matter, the end user does not retain a
copy of the work when the performance ends.
• Work for which downloading or reproduction is expressly prohibited. If there is a notice on a
website in the terms of service for the site or another obvious place indicating that a work or
the content on the site cannot be downloaded, printed, or copied, the work or content may be
deemed unpublished, because the end user is not authorized to download, print, or otherwise
distribute copies.
• Work posted without the authority of the copyright owner. The fact that a work was posted
on a website without authorization does not constitute publication, even if the work can be
downloaded or printed from that site, because the copyright owner did not authorize the end
user to retain copies of the work.
• Work for which downloading is expressly authorized. If a work is expressly made available for
download, such as when users can click on a “Download Now” button or similar link to obtain
copies, the work has been published. However, this authorization may be limited to particular
works and does not necessarily extend to the website as a whole.
• Work made available in electronic and physical format. If the same work is posted online and
distributed in tangible copies, such as CDs, DVDs, or printed formats, the work is considered
published, even if it has not been posted online in a manner that would constitute publication.
• Work made available through an implied license. It may be unclear whether the copyright owner
authorized the public to retain copies of the work if a work is posted on a website and there is
no evident statement in the terms of service for the site—on the web page where the work is
displayed or elsewhere—stating that the work can be downloaded, copied, forwarded, shared,
or printed. If the website assists the end user in some manner in downloading, reproducing, or
retransmitting the content of the site, there may be an implied license to distribute copies of
the work, in which case the work would be considered published.
For additional guidance in determining whether a particular work has been published, see
chapter 1000, section 1008.3, of the Compendium.

Derivative Versions

Most websites are updated often and change significantly over time. Generally, each new version of a
website is considered a separate work for purposes of registration.
A registration for a specific version of a website covers the new material that the author
contributed to that version, including any changes, revisions, additions, or other modifications that
the author made to that version. Ordinarily, the registration does not cover earlier or later versions
of the same website or preexisting material that may be contained within that site.
In particular, a registration for a specific version of a website does not cover:
• Previously published material;
• Previously registered material;

Copyright Registration of Websites and Website Content

5

• Material that is in the public domain; or
• Copyrightable material owned by a third party.
There is a limited exception to this rule. A registration may cover both new material and
preexisting material if the preexisting material has never been published or registered before and if
the claimant owns the copyright in both the new and the preexisting material.
Whether the additions or alterations to a website and its content are published or unpublished
is central to determining what you can register and what you need to exclude from your claim. If
the website and its content have been published, you generally should limit your claim to the new
content that appeared on the website on a single date, and you should file separate applications for
any other date on which newly published material was added to the website. By contrast, if the new
content is unpublished, you may be able to register that content using the group registration option
for unpublished works, even if the content was added to the website on different dates.

Deposit Requirements
The deposit requirements for websites and website content are generally the same as for any
other work. If the work is unpublished or if it has been published solely online, you must submit
a complete copy of the work. For example, if you want to register an entire website, you must
submit all of the pages as they actually appear on the site, regardless of volume. If you want to
register an individual work that appears on the website, the deposit must depict the work in the
context in which it appears on the website or web page. In other words, the deposit should show
how the content would be perceived when a user accesses that content online. A claim in an entire
website does not extend to any content that cannot be viewed in the deposit copy, such as audio or
audiovisual works that may be embedded within the website.
Currently, PDF format is the preferred means for submitting deposits of websites and website
content. A PDF package can be used to fix an entire website and maintain the organization and
navigation of the site. If the work has been published, you should make sure that the content of the
deposit matches the date of publication specified in your application.
The Office will not accept a link to a website or other online sources. You should not submit
separate files or folders containing unassembled content or content that has been disassociated
from the website or web page where it originally appeared. As mentioned above, you do not have to
submit the HTML for a website unless you specifically want to register the human-written portions
of the HTML itself and any website text that is embedded within the HTML.
The mandatory deposit requirement generally does not apply to works published in the United
States that are only available online. However, there is a limited exception to this rule for electronic
serials that have been expressly demanded by the Copyright Office. For a definition of “electronic
serial” and information concerning the mandatory deposit requirements for such works, see
Mandatory Deposit of Copies or Phonorecords for the Library of Congress (Circular 7D).

Copyright Registration of Websites and Website Content

6

note
1. This circular is intended as an overview of registering website content with the Copyright Office.
The authoritative source for U.S. copyright law is the Copyright Act, codified in Title 17 of the United
States Code. Copyright Office regulations are codified in Title 37 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
Copyright Office practices and procedures are summarized in the third edition of the Compendium
of U.S. Copyright Office Practices, cited as the Compendium. The copyright law, regulations, and the
Compendium are available on the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov.

Copyright Registration of Websites and Website Content

7

For Further Information
By Internet

The copyright law, the Compendium, electronic registration, application forms, regulations,
and related materials are available on the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov.
By Email

To send an email inquiry, click the Contact Us link on the Copyright Office website.
By Telephone

For general information, call the Copyright Public Information Office at (202) 707-3000 or
1-877-476-0778 (toll free). Staff members are on duty from 8:30 am to 5:00 pm, eastern time,
Monday through Friday, except federal holidays. To request application forms or circulars by
postal mail, call (202) 707-9100 or 1-877-476-0778 and leave a recorded message.
By Regular Mail

Write to
Library of Congress
U.S. Copyright Office
Publications Section
101 Independence Avenue, SE #6304
Washington, DC 20559-6304

1

U. S. Copyright Office · Library of Congress · 101 Independence Avenue SE · Washington, DC 20559 · copyright.gov
CIRCULAR 66

REVISED: 08/2020

PRINT: 00 /0000 — 0,000

